# Simulating Thermodynamic Properties of Dinuclear Metal Complexes using Variational Quantum Algorithms

This repository houses the codes and scripts developed for our study[^1], in which we applied the Variational Quantum Thermalizer Algorithm[^2] to simulate the thermodynamic properties of metal complexes. Below, I've included a detailed description of the main files in the repository.

## Files

### 1. `StateV_pennylane.ipynb`

This notebook implements a code to generate thermal states using the Pennylane simulator. The code was developed based on the tutorial at [Pennylane VQT Tutorial](https://pennylane.ai/qml/demos/tutorial_vqt/).

### 2. `VQT_qiskit_qasm_noise.ipynb`

This notebook was used to implement the VQT algorithm in Qiskit's QASM backend, with the addition of noise.

### 3. `VQT_qiskit_svector.ipynb`

This notebook was used to implement the VQT algorithm in a Qiskit state vector simulator.

### 4. `simulation data` folder

This folder contains all the files generated by the simulations performed in the notebooks above.

## References

[^1]: das Neves Silva, A. C., Queiroz Galvão, L., & Cruz, C. (2024). *Simulating thermodynamic properties of dinuclear metal complexes using Variational Quantum Algorithms*. Physica Scripta. [Link to article](http://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1402-4896/ad6ec3).

[^2]: Verdon, G., Marks, J., Nanda, S., Leichenauer, S., & Hidary, J. (2019). *Quantum Hamiltonian-Based Models and the Variational Quantum Thermalizer Algorithm*. arXiv preprint arXiv:1910.02071. [Link to article](https://arxiv.org/abs/1910.02071).
